README.md, before:

> A picture is worth a thousand words

Vim has so many plugins that I forget I have them all. This markdown is to quick view what each plugin does.

<details>
  <summary>Index - Click to expand</summary>

* [ALE](#ale)
* [prettier](#prettier)
* [coc.nvim](#cocnvim)
* [copilot.vim](#copilotvim)
* [codeium.vim](#codeiumvim)
* [vim-ai](#vim-ai)
* [cheat.sh-vim](#cheatsh-vim)
* [Ctags: tagbar](#ctags-tagbar)
* [Ctags: vista.vim](#ctags-vistavim)
* [emmet-vim](#emmet-vim)
* [jupyter-vim](#jupyter-vim)
* [jupytext (not a vim plugin)](#jupytext-not-a-vim-plugin)
* [jupyter_ascending](#jupyter_ascending)
* [vim-markdown](#vim-markdown)
* [markdown-preview](#markdown-preview)
* [vim-terminator](#vim-terminator)
* [codi.vim](#codivim)
* [vim-test](#vim-test)
* [vimspector debugger](#vimspector-debugger)
* [Snippets](#snippets)
  * [UltiSnips](#ultisnips)
  * [Coc-snippets](#coc-snippets)
* [VimTex](#vimtex)
* [vim-latex-live-preview](#vim-latex-live-preview)
* [bracey.vim](#braceyvim)
* [git-signs](#git-signs)
  * [gitsigns.nvim](#gitsignsnvim)
  * [vim-gitgutter](#vim-gitgutter)
* [vim-fugitive](#vim-fugitive)
* [diffchar](#diffchar)
* [undotree](#undotree)
* [illuminate](#illuminate)
* [vim-search-pulse](#vim-search-pulse)
* [indentline](#indentline)
* [highlightedyank](#highlightedyank)
* [Preview colors in code](#preview-colors-in-code)
* [vcoolor.vim](#vcoolorvim)
* [vim-surround](#vim-surround)
* [vim-indent-object](#vim-indent-object)
* [vim-matchup](#vim-matchup)
* [vim-visual-multi](#vim-visual-multi)
* [vim-signature](#vim-signature)
* [vim-bookmarks](#vim-bookmarks)
* [vim-codepainter](#vim-codepainter)
* [vim-mark](#vim-mark)
* [vim-simple-todo](#vim-simple-todo)
* [NNN](#nnn)
* [FZF](#fzf)
  * [fzf.vim](#fzfvim)
  * [fzf-preview.vim](#fzf-previewvim)
* [MRU](#mru)
* [vim-easymotion](#vim-easymotion)

At bottom:
- Hard to show screenshots like NERDCommenter
- Read somewhere else like vim-fugitive
- Not installed plugins like 🗄️ vim-dadbod ones
- Automatic plugin like vim-airline

* [obsession-vim](#obsession-vim)
* [vim-workspace](#vim-workspace)
* [vim-execution](#vim-execution)
* [NERDCommenter](#nerdcommenter)
* [vim-repeat](#vim-repeat)
* [vim-dadbod](#vim-dadbod)
* [VimDevIcons](#vimdevicons)
* [html5.vim](#html5vim)
* [vim-json](#vim-json)
* [vim-airline](#vim-airline)

</details>

## ALE

https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale

<video autoplay="true" muted="true" loop="false" controls="true" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3518142/210141215-8f2ff760-6a87-4704-a11e-c109b8e9ec41.mp4" title="An example showing what ALE can do."></video>


## prettier

https://github.com/prettier/vim-prettier

![vim-prettier](https://github.com/prettier/vim-prettier/blob/master/media/vim-prettier.gif?raw=true 'vim-prettier')


## coc.nvim

https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim

<img alt="Custom coc popup menu with snippet support" src="https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim/assets/251450/05f60ab8-dcb1-40f7-9e4a-3c03f5db5398" width="90%" />


## copilot.vim

🤖
https://github.com/github/copilot.vim


## codeium.vim 

🤖
https://codeium.com/vim_tutorial

https://github.com/Exafunction/windsurf.vim

![Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1908017/213154744-984b73de-9873-4b85-998f-799d92b28eec.gif)


## vim-ai

🤖
https://github.com/madox2/vim-ai

![vim-ai](https://github.com/madox2/vim-ai/blob/main/demo.gif?raw=true 'vim-ai')


## cheat.sh-vim 

~🤖
https://gitlab.com/dbeniamine/cheat.sh-vim/ 

<p align="center"> <img src='https://cheat.sh/files/vim-demo.gif'/> </p>


## Ctags: tagbar

https://github.com/majutsushi/tagbar#screenshots 

![screenshot1](https://i.imgur.com/Sf9Ls2r.png)


## Ctags: vista.vim

https://github.com/liuchengxu/vista.vim

<p align="center">
    <img width="900px" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8850248/56469894-14d40780-6472-11e9-802f-729ac53bd4d5.gif">
    <p align="center">Vista ctags</p>
</p>


## emmet-vim

https://github.com/mattn/emmet-vim

![screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mattn/emmet-vim/master/doc/screenshot.gif)


## jupyter-vim

🐍 Send lines from Python script to qtconsole

https://github.com/jupyter-vim/jupyter-vim 

Video:
[![Video Thumbnail](https://github.com/jupyter-vim/jupyter-vim/blob/master/demo.png?raw=true)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h59cbg4HqpY)

## jupytext (not a vim plugin)

🐍 pip install jupytext: edit py files synced to the paired .ipynb

https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/


## jupyter_ascending

🐍 expand jupytext package. Automatic update ipynb file at save of py script. Also run cells.

https://github.com/imbue-ai/jupyter_ascending

https://github.com/imbue-ai/jupyter_ascending.vim

![Jupyter Ascending](https://github.com/imbue-ai/jupyter_ascending.vim/blob/master/media/simple_jupyter_ascending.gif?raw=true)


## vim-markdown

https://github.com/preservim/vim-markdown

<details>
  <summary><code>:HeaderIncrease</code> and <code>:HeaderDecrease</code> - Click to expand</summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/HeaderIncrease_HeaderDecrease_normal_mode.gif" alt="HeaderIncrease_HeaderDecrease_normal_mode" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary><code>:InsertToc</code> and <code>:InsertNToc</code></summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/InsertToc_InsertNToc.gif" alt="InsertToc_InsertNToc" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary><code>:Toc</code></summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/Toc.gif" alt="Toc" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary><code>:TableFormat</code></summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/TableFormat.gif" alt="TableFormat" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Mappings <code>]]</code> and <code>]u</code>. Check Python,javascript and TeX syntax highlight in <code>```</code> blocks</summary>

  ![mappings](media/vim-markdown/mappings.gif)
</details>



## markdown-preview

https://github.com/iamcco/markdown-preview.nvim

![animation of Markdown Preview with its own README.md](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5492542/47603494-28e90000-da1f-11e8-9079-30646e551e7a.gif)


## vim-terminator

🐍,JS,... : run code in terminal, also REPL hunks

Ideal for quick testing js/C small code

For Python better just use: `qtconsole`

https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator

Run the current file in the output buffer:

![Run current file in output buffer](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/run_in_output_buffer.gif?raw=true "Run file in the output buffer")

Run the current file containing errors for quick fixing:

![Run current file with errors](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/quickfix.gif?raw=true "Run file with errors for quickfix")

Run the current file in a terminal:

![Run current file in a neovim terminal](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/run_in_terminal.gif?raw=true "Run file in the terminal")

Send text between delimiters to a REPL:

![Send text in delimiter to a new REPL](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/send_to_repl.gif?raw=true "Sending text to REPL")


## codi.vim

🐍,JS,... interactive scratchpad {{{2

https://github.com/metakirby5/codi.vim 

The interactive scratchpad for hackers.

![Codi demo.](https://github.com/metakirby5/codi.vim/blob/master/assets/codi.gif?raw=true)

_Using Codi as a Python scratchpad through the
[shell wrapper](#shell-wrapper)_

![Codi expand demo.](https://github.com/metakirby5/codi.vim/blob/master/assets/codi_expand.png)


## vim-test

https://github.com/vim-test/vim-test 

![Demo.](https://github.com/vim-test/vim-test/blob/master/screenshots/granularity.gif?raw=true)


## vimspector debugger

🔍🪲

https://github.com/puremourning/vimspector 

![vimspector-vim-screenshot](https://puremourning.github.io/vimspector-web/img/vimspector-overview.png)


## Snippets

![GIF Demo](https://raw.github.com/SirVer/ultisnips/master/doc/demo.gif?raw=true)

### UltiSnips

https://github.com/sirver/ultisnips

### Coc-snippets

https://github.com/neoclide/coc-snippets


## VimTex

https://github.com/lervag/vimtex


**Navigating sections**

Use `]]` to jump to the beginning of the next `\section`, `\subsection` or
`\subsubsection`, whichever comes first. Use `[[` to jump backward through
sections, and see the similar shortcuts `][` and `[]` in the VimTeX
documentation at `:help <Plug>(vimtex-][)` and `:help <Plug>(vimtex-[])`.

![Navigating sections](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex-media/blob/main/gif/move/move-section.gif?raw=true)

MUCH MORE in: https://github.com/lervag/vimtex/blob/master/VISUALS.md


## vim-latex-live-preview

https://github.com/xuhdev/vim-latex-live-preview

![Screenshot with Evince](https://github.com/xuhdev/vim-latex-live-preview/blob/master/misc/screenshot-evince.gif?raw=true)


## bracey.vim

</> JS/CSS : live-preview

https://github.com/turbio/bracey.vim/ 

![live html editing demo](https://github.com/turbio/bracey.vim/blob/master/readme_images/demo1.gif?raw=true)

Even evaluate javascript on save

![live javascript editing demo](https://github.com/turbio/bracey.vim/blob/master/readme_images/demo3.gif?raw=true)


## git-signs

🐹 signcolumn Git un/-staged, new, removed,...

### gitsigns.nvim

NeoVim only
https://github.com/lewis6991/gitsigns.nvim

| Hunk Actions | Line Blame |
| --- | ----------- |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewis6991/media/main/gitsigns_actions.gif?raw=true" width="450em"/> | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewis6991/media/main/gitsigns_blame.gif?raw=true" width="450em"/> |

Features that vim-gitgutter lacks:

- To columnsign (`:Gitsigns toggle_signs`) add number-sign (`:Gitsigns toggle_numhl`)

  ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/701548/118813268-f6bd7900-b87c-11eb-9761-3707b1c38d19.png)

- Git delta (add img of README de gitsigns) with cmd `:Gitsigns toggle_word_diff`

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/409a1f91-5cee-404b-8b12-66b7db3ecac7)

- Hunk reset

- Show blame information for the current line in popup with `:Gitsigns blame_line`.

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/03ff7557-b538-4cd1-9478-f893bf7e616e)

- Show blame information for the current line in virtual text.

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c79e880-6a6d-4c3f-aa62-33f734725cfd)

- Preview hunks inline with `:Gitsigns preview_hunk_inline`

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/60acd664-f4a8-4737-ba65-969f1efa7971)

- Preview hunks in popup with `:Gitsigns preview_hunk`

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d2a9b801-5857-4054-80a8-195d111f4e8c)

- Show hunks Quickfix/Location List

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c17001a5-b9cf-4a00-9891-5b130c0b4745)


### vim-gitgutter

https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter

![screenshot](https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter/blob/main/screenshot.png?raw=true)


## vim-fugitive 

https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive

- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim---a-complement-to-command-line-git/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-working-with-the-git-index/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-resolving-merge-conflicts-with-vimdiff/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-browsing-the-git-object-database/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-exploring-the-history-of-a-git-repository/


## diffchar

https://github.com/rickhowe/diffchar.vim

![demo](https://github.com/rickhowe/diffchar.vim/blob/master/demo.gif?raw=true)


## undotree

https://github.com/mbbill/undotree 

![](https://github.com/mbbill/undotree/blob/master/doc/_static/undotree.png)


## illuminate

Highlight current word under the cursor

https://github.com/rrethy/vim-illuminate 

<!-- <video autoplay="true" muted="true" loop="false" controls="true" width="700px" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc1487cf-aa19-4238-af23-ab1ac2f5744a" title="An example showing what ALE can do."></video> -->

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc1487cf-aa19-4238-af23-ab1ac2f5744a


## vim-search-pulse

https://github.com/inside/vim-search-pulse

![cursor line pulse](http://i.imgur.com/ukZuti2.gif)


## indentline

Display thin vertical lines at each indentation level for code indented

https://github.com/yggdroot/indentline 

![Screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/KVi0T.jpg)


## highlightedyank

Highlight yanked region

https://github.com/machakann/vim-highlightedyank

![vim-highlightedyank](http://i.imgur.com/HulyZ6n.gif)


## Preview colors in code

🎨 

![screenshot](https://github.com/lilydjwg/colorizer/raw/master/screenshot.png)

`if &termguicolors`

https://github.com/BourgeoisBear/clrzr


`else`

https://github.com/lilydjwg/colorizer


## vcoolor.vim

🎨 

Color picker (to add RGB color)

https://github.com/kabbamine/vcoolor.vim 

In GNU/Linux it uses a simple GTK+ dialog via Zenity or Yad.

Click on the image for a short screencast of the v0.1.

[![Screencast of vCoolor](https://github.com/KabbAmine/vCoolor.vim/blob/master/.img/play-me.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZBJ_-Uxm55U)


## vim-surround

Add/replace delimiters like `{`,`(`,`"`,`'`,`<p>`,...

https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround/blob/master/doc/surround.txt

```
  Old text                  Command     New text ~
  "Hello *world!"           ds"         Hello world!
  [123+4*56]/2              cs])        (123+456)/2
  "Look ma, I'm *HTML!"     cs"<q>      <q>Look ma, I'm HTML!</q>
  if *x>3 {                 ysW(        if ( x>3 ) {
  my $str = *whee!;         vllllS'     my $str = 'whee!';
```


## vim-indent-object

Selects all lines with the same or greater indent level

Alike `%i` vmap of vim-matchup but for same **indent** level, **not** for matchup pairs (if-else-... or chars `(`,`{`...).

Visual maps:
- `ii`

https://github.com/urxvtcd/vim-indent-object

See https://asciinema.org/a/465213?autoplay=1


## vim-matchup

Extend vim's `%` key to language-specific words.

Much more than vim-indent-object.
For matchup pairs (if-else-... or chars `(`,`{`...). **Not neccesary** in same **indent** level.

https://github.com/andymass/vim-matchup

Normal maps: `%`, `g%`,...

Visual maps: `i%`, `a%`,...


![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/andymass/vim-matchup/images/match-up-hl1.gif)


## vim-visual-multi

E.g. to align by `=` 3 lines: 
 - cursor at start 1st line
 - `Ctrl-V`
 - `jj`
 - `\\c`
 - `f=`
 - `\\a` 

https://github.com/mg979/vim-visual-multi


![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/u5pPY5W.gif)

See exercises: https://github.com/juanMarinero/vim-visual-multi-exercises.


## vim-signature

Marks improved: un/-set, loop, show all, markColumn,...

https://github.com/kshenoy/vim-signature

Alphabetical mark traversal and more:
![Mark jumps](https://github.com/kshenoy/vim-signature/blob/images/screens/vim-signature_mark_jumps.gif?raw=true)


## vim-bookmarks

https://github.com/mattesgroeger/vim-bookmarks

![Preview](https://raw.github.com/MattesGroeger/vim-bookmarks/master/preview.gif)


## vim-codepainter

Highlight anything (save in json to perserve after closing file)

https://github.com/lpinilla/vim-codepainter

![](https://github.com/lpinilla/vim-codepainter/blob/master/vim-codepainter_demo.gif?raw=true)


## vim-mark

Multiple search highlight

https://github.com/inkarkat/vim-mark

<img alt="https://superuser.com/questions/147496/how-do-i-highlight-multiple-words-in-vim" src="https://i.sstatic.net/2SUo9.png" width="90%" />


## vim-simple-todo

https://github.com/vitalk/vim-simple-todo

```
[x] Create plugin
[x] Add helpful documentation
[x] Publish to GitHub
[ ] Spread the word
```


## NNN

https://github.com/mcchrish/nnn.vim

<video autoplay="true" width="800px" muted="true" loop="false" controls="true" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7200153/127453278-3e638e33-707a-49c8-b34e-225c225906b1.mov" title="An example showing what ALE can do."></video>



## FZF

### fzf.vim 

Find files/dirs/cmds quickly

https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/blob/master/README-VIM.md#fzf

### fzf-preview.vim

https://github.com/yuki-yano/fzf-preview.vim#features

![fzf-preview](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5423775/88540152-6e4fbc80-d04d-11ea-8d19-314ee5e4d294.gif?raw=true "fzf-preview")


## MRU

Most-Recently Used files

https://github.com/yegappan/mru

![issue59](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6072490/186197808-797b9b0d-48f3-46cc-9757-50a3d1e16d6b.png?raw=true "issue59")


## vim-easymotion

https://github.com/easymotion/vim-easymotion

1. Type `<Leader><Leader>w` to trigger the word motion w
2. When the motion is triggered the text is updated as 
![code.tutsplus.com](https://cdn.tutsplus.com/cdn-cgi/image/width=600/net/uploads/legacy/951_vimEasyMotion/trigger.jpg?raw=true "code.tutsplus.com")
[Source](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/vim-essential-plugin-easymotion--net-19223)
3. E.g. press `b` to jump to the beginning of the word *function* in line 6

Multi-window inc-search
![overwin-search](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/haya14busa/i/2753bd4dd1dfdf5962dbdbffabf24244e4e14243/easymotion/overwin-motions.gif?raw=true "overwin-search")

[fuzzy-search](https://github.com/easymotion/vim-easymotion#bonus-fuzzy-search-with-easymotion), etc.



----
----


## obsession-vim

Update mksession automatic

https://github.com/tpope/vim-obsession


## vim-workspace

Auto create mksessions per dir

https://github.com/thaerkh/vim-workspace



## vim-execution

Select line and run `@[macro]` instead of :`'<,'>normal @[macro]`

https://github.com/rnevius/vim-execution


## NERDCommenter


https://github.com/preservim/nerdcommenter#default-mappings

[GIFs](https://qiita-com.translate.goog/pepo/items/09bacf98a36f6a7285ac?_x_tr_sl=auto&_x_tr_tl=en)


## vim-repeat

Use `.` with not only native cmds (with `<Plug>` too)

https://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat


## vim-dadbod 

🗄️ DB interface
https://github.com/tpope/vim-dadbod

🗄️ vim-dadbod-ui
https://github.com/kristijanhusak/vim-dadbod-ui

🗄️ vim-dadbod-completion
https://github.com/kristijanhusak/vim-dadbod-completion


## VimDevIcons
https://github.com/ryanoasis/vim-devicons/wiki/Installation

See https://github.com/ryanoasis/vim-devicons/wiki/screenshots

<img src="https://github.com/ryanoasis/vim-devicons/wiki/screenshots/v0.10.x/overall-screenshot.png" alt="vim-devicons overall screenshot" />


## html5.vim

Fix HTML indent

https://github.com/othree/html5.vim 


## vim-json

https://github.com/elzr/vim-json

Distinct highlighting of keywords vs values, JSON-specific (non-JS) warnings, quote concealing.

![JSON syntax coloring](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/183877/7018898/98e428e0-dccf-11e4-9ab8-c554b3556155.jpg)


## vim-airline

https://github.com/vim-airline/vim-airline

![img](https://github.com/vim-airline/vim-airline/wiki/screenshots/demo.gif?raw=true)

Commit message:

add: this repo is NOT a detailed list of all Neo/Vim plugins

README.md, after:

> A picture is worth a thousand words

Vim has so many plugins that I forget I have them all. This markdown is to quick view what each plugin does.

This is not a detailed list of all Neo/Vim plugins; for that, visit
- [vim.org](https://www.vim.org/scripts/script_search_results.php?keywords=&script_type=&order_by=downloads&direction=descending&search=search) sorted by downloads/rating
- [vimawesome.com](https://vimawesome.com/) sorted by rating
- [awesome-vim](https://github.com/akrawchyk/awesome-vim) grouped by section and alphabetically sorted
- [awesome-neovim](https://github.com/rockerBOO/awesome-neovim) for NeoVim
- [vim-plugin-list](https://github.com/altermo/vim-plugin-list) last maintained in 2024

<details>
  <summary>Index - Click to expand</summary>

* [ALE](#ale)
* [prettier](#prettier)
* [coc.nvim](#cocnvim)
* [copilot.vim](#copilotvim)
* [codeium.vim](#codeiumvim)
* [vim-ai](#vim-ai)
* [cheat.sh-vim](#cheatsh-vim)
* [Ctags: tagbar](#ctags-tagbar)
* [Ctags: vista.vim](#ctags-vistavim)
* [emmet-vim](#emmet-vim)
* [jupyter-vim](#jupyter-vim)
* [jupytext (not a vim plugin)](#jupytext-not-a-vim-plugin)
* [jupyter_ascending](#jupyter_ascending)
* [vim-markdown](#vim-markdown)
* [markdown-preview](#markdown-preview)
* [vim-terminator](#vim-terminator)
* [codi.vim](#codivim)
* [vim-test](#vim-test)
* [vimspector debugger](#vimspector-debugger)
* [Snippets](#snippets)
  * [UltiSnips](#ultisnips)
  * [Coc-snippets](#coc-snippets)
* [VimTex](#vimtex)
* [vim-latex-live-preview](#vim-latex-live-preview)
* [bracey.vim](#braceyvim)
* [git-signs](#git-signs)
  * [gitsigns.nvim](#gitsignsnvim)
  * [vim-gitgutter](#vim-gitgutter)
* [vim-fugitive](#vim-fugitive)
* [diffchar](#diffchar)
* [undotree](#undotree)
* [illuminate](#illuminate)
* [vim-search-pulse](#vim-search-pulse)
* [indentline](#indentline)
* [highlightedyank](#highlightedyank)
* [Preview colors in code](#preview-colors-in-code)
* [vcoolor.vim](#vcoolorvim)
* [vim-surround](#vim-surround)
* [vim-indent-object](#vim-indent-object)
* [vim-matchup](#vim-matchup)
* [vim-visual-multi](#vim-visual-multi)
* [vim-signature](#vim-signature)
* [vim-bookmarks](#vim-bookmarks)
* [vim-codepainter](#vim-codepainter)
* [vim-mark](#vim-mark)
* [vim-simple-todo](#vim-simple-todo)
* [NNN](#nnn)
* [FZF](#fzf)
  * [fzf.vim](#fzfvim)
  * [fzf-preview.vim](#fzf-previewvim)
* [MRU](#mru)
* [vim-easymotion](#vim-easymotion)

At bottom:
- Hard to show screenshots like NERDCommenter
- Read somewhere else like vim-fugitive
- Not installed plugins like 🗄️ vim-dadbod ones
- Automatic plugin like vim-airline

* [obsession-vim](#obsession-vim)
* [vim-workspace](#vim-workspace)
* [vim-execution](#vim-execution)
* [NERDCommenter](#nerdcommenter)
* [vim-repeat](#vim-repeat)
* [vim-dadbod](#vim-dadbod)
* [VimDevIcons](#vimdevicons)
* [html5.vim](#html5vim)
* [vim-json](#vim-json)
* [vim-airline](#vim-airline)

</details>

## ALE

https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale

<video autoplay="true" muted="true" loop="false" controls="true" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3518142/210141215-8f2ff760-6a87-4704-a11e-c109b8e9ec41.mp4" title="An example showing what ALE can do."></video>


## prettier

https://github.com/prettier/vim-prettier

![vim-prettier](https://github.com/prettier/vim-prettier/blob/master/media/vim-prettier.gif?raw=true 'vim-prettier')


## coc.nvim

https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim

<img alt="Custom coc popup menu with snippet support" src="https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim/assets/251450/05f60ab8-dcb1-40f7-9e4a-3c03f5db5398" width="90%" />


## copilot.vim

🤖
https://github.com/github/copilot.vim


## codeium.vim 

🤖
https://codeium.com/vim_tutorial

https://github.com/Exafunction/windsurf.vim

![Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1908017/213154744-984b73de-9873-4b85-998f-799d92b28eec.gif)


## vim-ai

🤖
https://github.com/madox2/vim-ai

![vim-ai](https://github.com/madox2/vim-ai/blob/main/demo.gif?raw=true 'vim-ai')


## cheat.sh-vim 

~🤖
https://gitlab.com/dbeniamine/cheat.sh-vim/ 

<p align="center"> <img src='https://cheat.sh/files/vim-demo.gif'/> </p>


## Ctags: tagbar

https://github.com/majutsushi/tagbar#screenshots 

![screenshot1](https://i.imgur.com/Sf9Ls2r.png)


## Ctags: vista.vim

https://github.com/liuchengxu/vista.vim

<p align="center">
    <img width="900px" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8850248/56469894-14d40780-6472-11e9-802f-729ac53bd4d5.gif">
    <p align="center">Vista ctags</p>
</p>


## emmet-vim

https://github.com/mattn/emmet-vim

![screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mattn/emmet-vim/master/doc/screenshot.gif)


## jupyter-vim

🐍 Send lines from Python script to qtconsole

https://github.com/jupyter-vim/jupyter-vim 

Video:
[![Video Thumbnail](https://github.com/jupyter-vim/jupyter-vim/blob/master/demo.png?raw=true)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h59cbg4HqpY)

## jupytext (not a vim plugin)

🐍 pip install jupytext: edit py files synced to the paired .ipynb

https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/


## jupyter_ascending

🐍 expand jupytext package. Automatic update ipynb file at save of py script. Also run cells.

https://github.com/imbue-ai/jupyter_ascending

https://github.com/imbue-ai/jupyter_ascending.vim

![Jupyter Ascending](https://github.com/imbue-ai/jupyter_ascending.vim/blob/master/media/simple_jupyter_ascending.gif?raw=true)


## vim-markdown

https://github.com/preservim/vim-markdown

<details>
  <summary><code>:HeaderIncrease</code> and <code>:HeaderDecrease</code> - Click to expand</summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/HeaderIncrease_HeaderDecrease_normal_mode.gif" alt="HeaderIncrease_HeaderDecrease_normal_mode" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary><code>:InsertToc</code> and <code>:InsertNToc</code></summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/InsertToc_InsertNToc.gif" alt="InsertToc_InsertNToc" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary><code>:Toc</code></summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/Toc.gif" alt="Toc" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary><code>:TableFormat</code></summary>

  <img src="media/vim-markdown/TableFormat.gif" alt="TableFormat" width="567" height="700">
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Mappings <code>]]</code> and <code>]u</code>. Check Python,javascript and TeX syntax highlight in <code>```</code> blocks</summary>

  ![mappings](media/vim-markdown/mappings.gif)
</details>



## markdown-preview

https://github.com/iamcco/markdown-preview.nvim

![animation of Markdown Preview with its own README.md](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5492542/47603494-28e90000-da1f-11e8-9079-30646e551e7a.gif)


## vim-terminator

🐍,JS,... : run code in terminal, also REPL hunks

Ideal for quick testing js/C small code

For Python better just use: `qtconsole`

https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator

Run the current file in the output buffer:

![Run current file in output buffer](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/run_in_output_buffer.gif?raw=true "Run file in the output buffer")

Run the current file containing errors for quick fixing:

![Run current file with errors](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/quickfix.gif?raw=true "Run file with errors for quickfix")

Run the current file in a terminal:

![Run current file in a neovim terminal](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/run_in_terminal.gif?raw=true "Run file in the terminal")

Send text between delimiters to a REPL:

![Send text in delimiter to a new REPL](https://github.com/erietz/vim-terminator/blob/main/media/send_to_repl.gif?raw=true "Sending text to REPL")


## codi.vim

🐍,JS,... interactive scratchpad {{{2

https://github.com/metakirby5/codi.vim 

The interactive scratchpad for hackers.

![Codi demo.](https://github.com/metakirby5/codi.vim/blob/master/assets/codi.gif?raw=true)

_Using Codi as a Python scratchpad through the
[shell wrapper](#shell-wrapper)_

![Codi expand demo.](https://github.com/metakirby5/codi.vim/blob/master/assets/codi_expand.png)


## vim-test

https://github.com/vim-test/vim-test 

![Demo.](https://github.com/vim-test/vim-test/blob/master/screenshots/granularity.gif?raw=true)


## vimspector debugger

🔍🪲

https://github.com/puremourning/vimspector 

![vimspector-vim-screenshot](https://puremourning.github.io/vimspector-web/img/vimspector-overview.png)


## Snippets

![GIF Demo](https://raw.github.com/SirVer/ultisnips/master/doc/demo.gif?raw=true)

### UltiSnips

https://github.com/sirver/ultisnips

### Coc-snippets

https://github.com/neoclide/coc-snippets


## VimTex

https://github.com/lervag/vimtex


**Navigating sections**

Use `]]` to jump to the beginning of the next `\section`, `\subsection` or
`\subsubsection`, whichever comes first. Use `[[` to jump backward through
sections, and see the similar shortcuts `][` and `[]` in the VimTeX
documentation at `:help <Plug>(vimtex-][)` and `:help <Plug>(vimtex-[])`.

![Navigating sections](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex-media/blob/main/gif/move/move-section.gif?raw=true)

MUCH MORE in: https://github.com/lervag/vimtex/blob/master/VISUALS.md


## vim-latex-live-preview

https://github.com/xuhdev/vim-latex-live-preview

![Screenshot with Evince](https://github.com/xuhdev/vim-latex-live-preview/blob/master/misc/screenshot-evince.gif?raw=true)


## bracey.vim

</> JS/CSS : live-preview

https://github.com/turbio/bracey.vim/ 

![live html editing demo](https://github.com/turbio/bracey.vim/blob/master/readme_images/demo1.gif?raw=true)

Even evaluate javascript on save

![live javascript editing demo](https://github.com/turbio/bracey.vim/blob/master/readme_images/demo3.gif?raw=true)


## git-signs

🐹 signcolumn Git un/-staged, new, removed,...

### gitsigns.nvim

NeoVim only
https://github.com/lewis6991/gitsigns.nvim

| Hunk Actions | Line Blame |
| --- | ----------- |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewis6991/media/main/gitsigns_actions.gif?raw=true" width="450em"/> | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewis6991/media/main/gitsigns_blame.gif?raw=true" width="450em"/> |

Features that vim-gitgutter lacks:

- To columnsign (`:Gitsigns toggle_signs`) add number-sign (`:Gitsigns toggle_numhl`)

  ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/701548/118813268-f6bd7900-b87c-11eb-9761-3707b1c38d19.png)

- Git delta (add img of README de gitsigns) with cmd `:Gitsigns toggle_word_diff`

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/409a1f91-5cee-404b-8b12-66b7db3ecac7)

- Hunk reset

- Show blame information for the current line in popup with `:Gitsigns blame_line`.

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/03ff7557-b538-4cd1-9478-f893bf7e616e)

- Show blame information for the current line in virtual text.

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c79e880-6a6d-4c3f-aa62-33f734725cfd)

- Preview hunks inline with `:Gitsigns preview_hunk_inline`

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/60acd664-f4a8-4737-ba65-969f1efa7971)

- Preview hunks in popup with `:Gitsigns preview_hunk`

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d2a9b801-5857-4054-80a8-195d111f4e8c)

- Show hunks Quickfix/Location List

  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c17001a5-b9cf-4a00-9891-5b130c0b4745)


### vim-gitgutter

https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter

![screenshot](https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter/blob/main/screenshot.png?raw=true)


## vim-fugitive 

https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive

- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim---a-complement-to-command-line-git/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-working-with-the-git-index/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-resolving-merge-conflicts-with-vimdiff/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-browsing-the-git-object-database/
- http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim-exploring-the-history-of-a-git-repository/


## diffchar

https://github.com/rickhowe/diffchar.vim

![demo](https://github.com/rickhowe/diffchar.vim/blob/master/demo.gif?raw=true)


## undotree

https://github.com/mbbill/undotree 

![](https://github.com/mbbill/undotree/blob/master/doc/_static/undotree.png)


## illuminate

Highlight current word under the cursor

https://github.com/rrethy/vim-illuminate 

<!-- <video autoplay="true" muted="true" loop="false" controls="true" width="700px" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc1487cf-aa19-4238-af23-ab1ac2f5744a" title="An example showing what ALE can do."></video> -->

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc1487cf-aa19-4238-af23-ab1ac2f5744a


## vim-search-pulse

https://github.com/inside/vim-search-pulse

![cursor line pulse](http://i.imgur.com/ukZuti2.gif)


## indentline

Display thin vertical lines at each indentation level for code indented

https://github.com/yggdroot/indentline 

![Screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/KVi0T.jpg)


## highlightedyank

Highlight yanked region

https://github.com/machakann/vim-highlightedyank

![vim-highlightedyank](http://i.imgur.com/HulyZ6n.gif)


## Preview colors in code

🎨 

![screenshot](https://github.com/lilydjwg/colorizer/raw/master/screenshot.png)

`if &termguicolors`

https://github.com/BourgeoisBear/clrzr


`else`

https://github.com/lilydjwg/colorizer


## vcoolor.vim

🎨 

Color picker (to add RGB color)

https://github.com/kabbamine/vcoolor.vim 

In GNU/Linux it uses a simple GTK+ dialog via Zenity or Yad.

Click on the image for a short screencast of the v0.1.

[![Screencast of vCoolor](https://github.com/KabbAmine/vCoolor.vim/blob/master/.img/play-me.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZBJ_-Uxm55U)


## vim-surround

Add/replace delimiters like `{`,`(`,`"`,`'`,`<p>`,...

https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround/blob/master/doc/surround.txt

```
  Old text                  Command     New text ~
  "Hello *world!"           ds"         Hello world!
  [123+4*56]/2              cs])        (123+456)/2
  "Look ma, I'm *HTML!"     cs"<q>      <q>Look ma, I'm HTML!</q>
  if *x>3 {                 ysW(        if ( x>3 ) {
  my $str = *whee!;         vllllS'     my $str = 'whee!';
```


## vim-indent-object

Selects all lines with the same or greater indent level

Alike `%i` vmap of vim-matchup but for same **indent** level, **not** for matchup pairs (if-else-... or chars `(`,`{`...).

Visual maps:
- `ii`

https://github.com/urxvtcd/vim-indent-object

See https://asciinema.org/a/465213?autoplay=1


## vim-matchup

Extend vim's `%` key to language-specific words.

Much more than vim-indent-object.
For matchup pairs (if-else-... or chars `(`,`{`...). **Not neccesary** in same **indent** level.

https://github.com/andymass/vim-matchup

Normal maps: `%`, `g%`,...

Visual maps: `i%`, `a%`,...


![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/andymass/vim-matchup/images/match-up-hl1.gif)


## vim-visual-multi

E.g. to align by `=` 3 lines: 
 - cursor at start 1st line
 - `Ctrl-V`
 - `jj`
 - `\\c`
 - `f=`
 - `\\a` 

https://github.com/mg979/vim-visual-multi


![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/u5pPY5W.gif)

See exercises: https://github.com/juanMarinero/vim-visual-multi-exercises.


## vim-signature

Marks improved: un/-set, loop, show all, markColumn,...

https://github.com/kshenoy/vim-signature

Alphabetical mark traversal and more:
![Mark jumps](https://github.com/kshenoy/vim-signature/blob/images/screens/vim-signature_mark_jumps.gif?raw=true)


## vim-bookmarks

https://github.com/mattesgroeger/vim-bookmarks

![Preview](https://raw.github.com/MattesGroeger/vim-bookmarks/master/preview.gif)


## vim-codepainter

Highlight anything (save in json to perserve after closing file)

https://github.com/lpinilla/vim-codepainter

![](https://github.com/lpinilla/vim-codepainter/blob/master/vim-codepainter_demo.gif?raw=true)


## vim-mark

Multiple search highlight

https://github.com/inkarkat/vim-mark

<img alt="https://superuser.com/questions/147496/how-do-i-highlight-multiple-words-in-vim" src="https://i.sstatic.net/2SUo9.png" width="90%" />


## vim-simple-todo

https://github.com/vitalk/vim-simple-todo

```
[x] Create plugin
[x] Add helpful documentation
[x] Publish to GitHub
[ ] Spread the word
```


## NNN

https://github.com/mcchrish/nnn.vim

<video autoplay="true" width="800px" muted="true" loop="false" controls="true" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7200153/127453278-3e638e33-707a-49c8-b34e-225c225906b1.mov" title="An example showing what ALE can do."></video>



## FZF

### fzf.vim 

Find files/dirs/cmds quickly

https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/blob/master/README-VIM.md#fzf

### fzf-preview.vim

https://github.com/yuki-yano/fzf-preview.vim#features

![fzf-preview](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5423775/88540152-6e4fbc80-d04d-11ea-8d19-314ee5e4d294.gif?raw=true "fzf-preview")


## MRU

Most-Recently Used files

https://github.com/yegappan/mru

![issue59](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6072490/186197808-797b9b0d-48f3-46cc-9757-50a3d1e16d6b.png?raw=true "issue59")


## vim-easymotion

https://github.com/easymotion/vim-easymotion

1. Type `<Leader><Leader>w` to trigger the word motion w
2. When the motion is triggered the text is updated as 
![code.tutsplus.com](https://cdn.tutsplus.com/cdn-cgi/image/width=600/net/uploads/legacy/951_vimEasyMotion/trigger.jpg?raw=true "code.tutsplus.com")
[Source](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/vim-essential-plugin-easymotion--net-19223)
3. E.g. press `b` to jump to the beginning of the word *function* in line 6

Multi-window inc-search
![overwin-search](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/haya14busa/i/2753bd4dd1dfdf5962dbdbffabf24244e4e14243/easymotion/overwin-motions.gif?raw=true "overwin-search")

[fuzzy-search](https://github.com/easymotion/vim-easymotion#bonus-fuzzy-search-with-easymotion), etc.



----
----


## obsession-vim

Update mksession automatic

https://github.com/tpope/vim-obsession


## vim-workspace

Auto create mksessions per dir

https://github.com/thaerkh/vim-workspace



## vim-execution

Select line and run `@[macro]` instead of :`'<,'>normal @[macro]`

https://github.com/rnevius/vim-execution


## NERDCommenter


https://github.com/preservim/nerdcommenter#default-mappings

[GIFs](https://qiita-com.translate.goog/pepo/items/09bacf98a36f6a7285ac?_x_tr_sl=auto&_x_tr_tl=en)


## vim-repeat

Use `.` with not only native cmds (with `<Plug>` too)

https://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat


## vim-dadbod 

🗄️ DB interface
https://github.com/tpope/vim-dadbod

🗄️ vim-dadbod-ui
https://github.com/kristijanhusak/vim-dadbod-ui

🗄️ vim-dadbod-completion
https://github.com/kristijanhusak/vim-dadbod-completion


## VimDevIcons
https://github.com/ryanoasis/vim-devicons/wiki/Installation

See https://github.com/ryanoasis/vim-devicons/wiki/screenshots

<img src="https://github.com/ryanoasis/vim-devicons/wiki/screenshots/v0.10.x/overall-screenshot.png" alt="vim-devicons overall screenshot" />


## html5.vim

Fix HTML indent

https://github.com/othree/html5.vim 


## vim-json

https://github.com/elzr/vim-json

Distinct highlighting of keywords vs values, JSON-specific (non-JS) warnings, quote concealing.

![JSON syntax coloring](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/183877/7018898/98e428e0-dccf-11e4-9ab8-c554b3556155.jpg)


## vim-airline

https://github.com/vim-airline/vim-airline

![img](https://github.com/vim-airline/vim-airline/wiki/screenshots/demo.gif?raw=true)
